Whoa!
Okay, fellows,
you can use the front door.
And if you need any water
or soda, it's in the
kitchen.
- Help yourselves.
- Thank you.
Real nice of you, sir.
Kate, I thought
you were going to Barbie's
to do your homework.
She's coming over later.
So these guys
are really ex-cons?
Moving company hires them, helps
them get back on their feet.
Hey, stop that.
You're not worried
they'll steal something?
I think people
deserve
a second chance.
Like mom?
- That's different.
- Yeah?
Let's not do this
here, please.
Fine.
FYI, that's mine.
[chuckles]
Uh, where would you
like me to put this?
Upstairs, first room
on the right.
You ready to see
your new room, honey?
Come on.
Beautiful house, sir.
I think so.
And you?
I wanna go home.
I'll get the rest
of the boxes.
I'm doing the best
I can here, Kate.
- I miss mom.
- So do I.
Then why did you put her
in that place again?
- She's sick again, honey,
and--
- She's not sick.
If she doesn't stop
drinking this time
she's gonna kill herself.
I ought to get
back
down there.
Feel anything?
The AC's dead.
It's not even 9:00 'o clock and
it feels like it's 90 degrees.
(Rush)
'Oh, weatherman says
no let up in sight.'
What's that gonna do?
Do you feel that?
I think it's workin'.
An inmate's been
calling
all morning for you.
Hmm.
Andre Tibbs.
Blast from the past.
The name's
familiar.
He on the row?
Got lethal injection for the
rape, murder of a kid in '94.
You work that job?
Interrogated him, yeah.
He confessed?
No, and if the evidence
hadn't been so airtight
I would have beat it out of
him
for what he did to that girl.
So why's he bugging you now?
My guess..
This.
'Joey Norman,
cop in the 17th.'
'Thought I knew him, right?'
'Turns out the guy was dirty.'
Planting drugs,
taking payoffs.
And now, the DA's
office
is worried.
He's screwed up
three of their
cases.
(Vera)
'So the guy blows
his brains out.'
So what's the connect?
I mean..
Dirty cop,
death row inmate?
Andre Tibbs always claimed
he was framed
by his arresting officer..
...Joey Norman.
Homicide.
Yeah, I'll accept the charges.
Andre?
- They call me Mr. Tibbs.
- 'Right.'
A regular Sidney Poitier.
Call me to talk
about the movies,
Andre?
I heard about that dirty cop,
Norman offin' himself.
What did I tell you?
Got nothing to
do
with your case.
Man arrested me, remember?
Framed me.
Nabbed that letter
from my back pocket.
That letter was never
going to prove you innocent.
But it would prove
that cop a liar.
And maybe
you'd believe my story.
Tell it to your lawyers.
I'm done with them
snakes in the grass.
- I'm telling it to you.
- Nobody framed you, Andre.
So what if he did?
You're not gonna wonder
about that?
Why should I?
My execution is set.
They're gonna kill me
in three days.
Uh, never thought I'd be so
happy to be coming down here.
[chuckles]
Only cool spot
in the whole
place.
What do we got?
Kate Lange, 16, raped
and stabbed to death.
Andre Tibbs
was the only suspect.
Ah, he'd just been
released
from county.
He did three years for assault.
(Jeffries)
'Yeah, was working
for a moving company'
at the girl's house
the day of the murder.
Uh, that night,
Kate's father heard a
noise.
Came downstairs, saw Andre
standing over
his daughter's
body.
He made a positive ID.
Officer Norman caught Andre
running from the scene
with blood on his boots.
Blood that matched the victim's.
Well, that's open and closed.
What about this letter?
Andre claims this dirty
cop
took off of him.
Some apology to Mr. Lange
for mouthing off
during the move.
Internal Affairs
would
have the letter
now.
They've been through Norman's
desk, locker, house.
Yeah, if it exists.
And state's killing
him
in three days.
We don't need anyone wondering
if we got the right guy.
Got to you, huh?
This all a game
to you, Andre?
Getting your kicks
before you die?
Get 'em while I can.
And you are?
Detective Miller.
Welcome to the
row,
baby girl.
Don't you baby girl me, Tibbs
or your black ass
goes back to isolation.
[chuckles]
Gotta earn it first,
right?
You find the letter
that cop took?
- If there was a letter.
- There was.
Even so, be a long shot
Officer Norman held onto it.
Forget the letter.
The blood, the ID,
that's your
problem.
Look, I said a million times
that there was blood on my boots
because I was inside that house.
Delivering that apology
letter,
right?
I lost my cool
earlier that day.
I went back that night.
The door was open.
I go inside.
And that's when I seen her.
And you just up and
ran.
Why not help?
Look in the mirror, brother.
You would have run too.
- I didn't kill anyone.
- Neither did I.
Bottom line is that girl's
father saw you.
And I told you again and again
that that man is lying.
Why would he do that?
Because I pissed him
off that day.
Dad, what are we doing
for dinner?
I haven't
thought
about it yet.
Do we have chocolate milk
in the fridge?
The fridge isn't plugged in
yet, honey.
'Hey, the vanity
and the mirror.'
You wanted that
in your room, right?
Whatever.
It's not even mine.
That's one of the last things
to bring in there.
I'm on it, boss.
(Wayne)
'Sixteen can be tough, huh?'
- You got kids?
- Girl, same age.
Me and my daughter
always been close though.
'Sometimes, they turn out
that way.'
(Lange)
'Lucky.'
Need a break there, Andre?
[panting]
I'm just, uh, just
getting my grip, boss.
- He okay?
- Yeah, he's got his
problems.
Drinkin'.
- Hey, let me help.
- No, no, I'm-I'm good.
Uh, it's okay.
This is
valuable.
Belonged to my wife
when she was a girl.
Please, let it go. You're
making
me look bad now.
- Let's just put it down.
- No! Come on!
What the hell
is wrong with
you?
I asked you to let it go.
I said I had it.
- Well, you didn't.
- Look, get out of my face.
You have any idea
what you just did?
I said get out of my face!
♪ ...wanted was
something like a job
You're done, Tibbs!
Look, I-I need this job.
Sorry. Clear out.
(Miller)
'So you got fired, left..'
...then what?
I started off strong that day
but by that point,
I needed a drink, bad.
So back to my corner stool
I went.
(Jeffries)
'Right, get your courage up'
start thinking
about that little girl.
No. Got my courage up
and wrote up that apology.
Why did you wait till 1:00
a.m.
to drop it off?
Because I thought if I could
just make it to last call
and not pick up my glass
that I would have a,
I'd have a chance at a life.
Time's up, Tibbs.
Let's go.
Less than three days left,
and counting.
Why not go out
by telling the truth?
Like I said..
...I already did.
(Lange)
I never believed
in the death penalty.
But the minute I walked into
that kitchen and saw my girl..
...my thinking changed
right there.
And you're sure
Andre Tibbs did it?
Of course, I'm sure.
'Cause you positively
identified him
as the man
who killed your daughter.
Yes, I did.
And you're sure Officer Norman
didn't influence that call?
If you're 100
percent
certain he did it
we just need you
to tell us that.
I was the one who found
Kate's body that night.
Somebody had to pay.
I heard a noise.
- I came downstairs, I saw--
- Take your time.
Is that him?
From the moving company.
He was here today.
And is he the man
you saw..
...in your home tonight?
I hired him.
I brought him here.
Mr. Lange.
I need you to focus, alright?
Is that the man you saw?
I didn't see.
I, I heard
some-something.
Footsteps, running.
I found him three blocks
from here.
Running with blood
on his boots.
He did it.
You know it, I know it.
He's gotta pay for that.
(Norman)
'Let's start over, Mr.
Lange.'
Is that the man
you saw tonight?
Yes.
My daughter's blood was on
his shoes. It had to be him.
But you didn't see Andre
in your house that night?
You never saw him.
Did you?
No.
I never saw anyone.
What the hell
is this all about?
Don't sit.
Mike Lange changed his story.
ID in his daughter's
case
is no good.
We want access to the evidence
in Norman's case.
IA isn't granting it.
Tibbs ran through all
his appeals. Case is closed.
If Norman tampered
with evidence
the integrity of the case is--
I prosecuted this.
Busted my ass.
You questioning my integrity?
ID is out the window.
That doesn't mean
anything to you?
This guy stupid or what?
'Speculation that another case
was tainted by Officer Norman'
is just that speculation.
(Stillman)
'Oh, Danner, I know
you've already taken'
hits on your cases
because of Norman.
Search warrant's all
we're asking.
Internal Affairs
will get through
the inventory on their own time.
Oh, that could take ten years.
- Andre Tibbs has got two
days.
- Tough.
(Jeffries)
'So if an innocent man dies
tomorrow night'
you don't care.
I've told you
our position on
this.
Now, please.
Before I drop-kick you both
out of my office.
You know, I was-I was
trying to do some good
by hiring these ex-cons,
and then this..
...little girl ends up dead.
Worst nightmare, huh?
If something like that
happened to my daughter..
...I don't know
how I'd go on.
She's all I got in this world.
Mr. Nelson, you had
trouble
with Andre that day
over him
breaking a
mirror?
Yeah, I suppose so.
Before he walked off the job,
do you remember him
threatening Mike Lange
or his daughter?
No.
Notice anything odd
maybe how Andre
was looking at her?
Hey, I'm realistic,
um, you know.
Some guys will look at any
girl,
young or old, but..
...my concern was don't touch.
And Andre, did he touch?
No.
You know, I was trying
to keep my business alive.
I-I didn't think it mattered.
Understood. Go on.
That day, early on, uh,
before I fired Andre
Mr. Lange offered
to buy us lunch.
So he gave me
his car keys, and, uh..
...I gave them to Andre.
- Here.
- What's this?
(Wayne)
'That's the keys to Mike's
car.'
He buys, we fly.
Better I stay
here.
But you're sure
he'd want me in his car?
Yeah, go on, hurry up.
Make it burgers, okay?
Headin' out?
How about getting us
some beers?
- Leave him alone, Barbie.
- Sorry, girls, can't do
that.
- So what's prison like?
- Shut up, you dork. God!
I mean 'cause you can
totally tell us
if you got shanked and stuff.
Beep, beep, beep,
paging Mr. Drug Dealer.
You're a total freak.
You wanna give me that back
so I can do this food run?
Give it back.
Not till
he answers my
question.
- So, why were you in prison?
- Sure you wanna know?
Yeah.
Beat a man almost to death.
Why?
(Tibbs)
'Why what?'
Why do that?
I was drunk, that's why.
Guess that's why
no beer run, huh?
Give him his pager, Barbie.
You need some help
getting food?
(Wayne)
'Andre, you still here?'
We're getting hungry!
Let's go!
Exactly how long
were they gone?
Well, long enough, I mean..
Burger place wasn't that far.
So, long enough to make
a set of those keys.
Which could explain
why no forced entry.
Andre never got out
of the car.
Those keys never left
the ignition.
Read this interview
you gave back in '94
and nowhere in here
do you mention
driving off
for a long lunch with Andre.
I was 16.
I wasn't gonna let
my parents know
I tried to seduce
an ex-con.
So this Andre..
...he stop anywhere else?
Like a key place?
Just the burger joint.
You two were gone
quite a while.
'Cause I gave him
wrong directions.
'Wanted to get lost with him.'
But he didn't go for it.
Got anything else to tell,
now's the time.
It was my fault.
What happened to Kate.
Why do you say that?
I was always
looking
for a hook-up
even when there wasn't one.
(Tibbs)
'You need to wrap these boxes
a little better.'
Oh, sorry.
This box go up
to your room?
Nope, attic.
'You sure about that?'
Nice photo.
I learned how to use
a timer that day.
- My mom taught me how.
- 'Did she?'
Are you better?
Better?
The drinking.
Forget it,
it's none of my
business.
I'm acting like Barbie now.
No, every-everyone's
got their own point.
See, their, their own bottom
when there's no place
lower you can go but there.
And when you hit that..
...you die..
...or you close your eyes
and believe.
Believe what?
There's something bigger
out there
than what's eating you alive.
Somethin' better.
Is there something better?
It's up to you to find it.
What if you don't?
Andre.
Need your help out here.
You might wanna
hold onto that.
Maybe I will.
They had this
connection,
and I..
...didn't want her
to just leave it at
that.
So what did you do about it?
I got Andre's number
off his pager.
And did you use it?
Not me.
I dared her to page him.
'Bugged her all day.'
And she finally did.
Late that night.
And he called right back.
So, Andre called Kate
the night of the murder?
(Jeffries)
'You called Kate Lange
the night she died.'
- What?
- After she paged you.
What are you talking about?
We got her phone records, Andre.
Shows all the outgoing
numbers
that night.
This one look
familiar?
Your pager.
I lost my pager that day
during the move.
- That's the truth.
- Sure, you did.
I never called that girl.
- I've no reason to believe
you.
- It's true.
You had her blood
on your boots.
I found her body.
- You raped and killed her.
- I didn't.
In the den,
earlier that
day
you were alone with Kate.
What?
That photo of her mom
on the beach?
Finding something bigger
'something better?'
Want me to go on?
Look, there's some
things
that ain't got
nothing to do with this case.
If you spent time together
it's got everything
to do with this case--
Look, I say different.
I don't see how talking about
old chit-chat's gonna help me.
Maybe it'll lead us
to the truth.
Lead you to the truth.
I'm not gonna tell you
I did it
if that's what's going on here.
We're way past lies, Andre.
Today's the day.
You got seven hours left.
We're not so different,
you and me.
You and me are nothing alike.
Two black men
from the same neighborhood.
If the ball had
bounced
just a little bit
different
you could be sitting over
here,
and me over there.
I never raped and murdered
a little girl.
Neither did I.
You wanna spend
your last hours on earth
telling yourself more lies.
Be my guest.
Where are you going?
Hey, don't walk away from
me!
'Do not walk away from me!'
Mr. Lange.
I was on my way
to the prison.
Execution's set
for midnight.
How can we help you?
Barbie called today.
She's torn up.
She blames herself
for what happened to Kate.
But it wasn't her fault.
It wasn't anyone's fault.
- No.
- 'Except him.'
And that's why I'm here.
I know he's the one
who killed my daughter.
Okay.
But I wanna come clean
about...everything.
He called Kate that night..
...on the phone.
- And you knew about that?
- It was almost midnight.
I heard the phone ring,
the two of them talking.
Why not tell
the police about it?
- More evidence against Andre.
- I didn't think I needed to.
I figured you had him
dead to rights.
And because
there was no forced
entry
you were worried
Kate let him in.
If word had gotten out
about that
people would have said
she brought it on herself.
Right.
I have this..
...dream some nights.
I'm back at the old house..
...and Kate and her mom
are there. We all are.
And Kate is smiling.
She's so happy.
And she says to me..
"Daddy..
...we're home."
(Kate)
Sorry, my dad was yelling
at you today.
I've gotta go.
Who's calling at this hour?
No one.
(Lange)
'"Andre?"'
The moving man?
What? No, God.
Why are you talking
to him, Kate?
You wouldn't understand.
Forget it.
Try me.
I gave her..
..all the chances I could.
'Your mom.'
'But sometimes,
if something breaks'
inside a person,
it can't be fixed.
I know this isn't home, Kate
but maybe it will be
one day.
Hey.
The fridge is working now.
Got your chocolate milk too.
Love you, daddy.
'Love you too.'
We never had a chance
to start over.
That night wasn't your fault.
[softly]
Yeah.
Well, I better get going.
- It's getting close to
time.
- Yeah.
You sure you wanna be there?
I've been lost..
...for 12 years.
Maybe this will bring
some peace.
Wasn't sure
you'd come back.
Been better if you'd asked
for
a spiritual advisor or a
priest.
Priest can't help me now.
You can.
How am I gonna do that?
I'd have to
believe
you're innocent.
- I don't.
- But you did.
Somewhere along the way.
So maybe you will again.
'You know nothing's changed.'
'Your execution is going ahead
as scheduled.'
I've been informed.
Heat's about to break.
I can feel it.
Every since I ripped up my
knee
playing summer league..
...I could always tell
when the rain's coming.
Basketball.
Ninth grade,
and it was all over.
I wasn't going pro
or nothing.
But one college
was lookin' at me.
Pretty sure
I could have got that.
Tore up my knee
playing
linebacker.
Yeah?
Never got the benefit of
predicting the weather
though.
Just the pain.
'I saw a man die once..'
...in this place, years ago.
He lived a life
full of lies.
So many lies,
he couldn't see through.
But in here..
...in those last moments..
...I could see in his eyes
he was ready to tell.
Tell what?
The truth.
Let's go,
Tibbs.
It's time.
Got a dead man walking here!
Any last words, Tibbs?
I'm sorry for you, sir.
She was a nice girl.
Maybe this will help you
somehow.
Last moment.
Time for truth,
like you said.
I'll tell it to you.
But all it is is what
I've been saying all along.
Hello?
Are you alright over there?
Hello.
Oh, God.
Oh!
I gotta get help.
Faith.
What?
- Faith?
- Mm-hmm.
You found faith?
Didn't I tell you you would?
See, you're not alone, alright?
I'm gonna go and get help.
Don't leave me.
(Tibbs)
There's something
out there bigger
than what's eating me alive.
Something better.
And if that little girl
found it..
...I'll find it too.
I gotta believe that.
That I'll find some peace.
Look into my eyes.
It has been there all along.
Truth.
[gasping]
Prove me innocent.
(Vera)
Will, what are you doin'?
We don't get a
warrant
to be here.
Andre's letter.
- Son of a bitch.
- I didn't believe him.
You believed the cop.
You should have been able
to.
Good thing Norman ate his gun
or I'd be feeding it
to him right now.
What's it say?
"Dear, Mr. Lange.
"I've been sitting
in this bar two hours now
trying to make sense of
the world on a piece of
paper."
(Tibbs)
But maybe there's just
this place in the end
this drink I'm staring into
this last stop on the road.
Today I told your girl
there's
something bigger out there
something better,
and she's gotta find it.
Make sure she does
'cause it's out there,
it's got to be out there.
Don't lose her
like I lost my family.
Like my boss fell out
with his daughter.
Just up and ran away,
no idea where she went.
She's gotta keep looking.
Me too.
(Jeffries)
"'Cause I know, one day,
we'll both find it.
Signed, Andre Tibbs."
So Andre's boss' daughter
split on him?
Gotta be Wayne, right?
Wayne, who goes around saying
how close he and his kid are?
(Danner)
What the hell is this?
You jerk me
around for three
days
when you knew
this was here?
The Lange case is closed.
You lie to my face.
Let a man die.
[chuckles]
And you're giving me a
tone?
There is nothing there.
Nothing.
You're no better
than Norman.
Kate's killer was executed
last night.
Now, do I need to say it..
...any..
...slower?
No.
That's...just right.
You're done.
You're gonna be back in blues.
You're gonna be riding
a mount for this.
- 'Wayne Nelson's daughter..'
- 'Mm-hmm.'
(Valens)
The one he claims
he's so close with?
Turns out she booked out
12 years ago.
No contact since.
Not my definition of close.
And guess what her name is?
Faith.
faith
was saying right when she
died.
- Maybe a coincidence.
- We track her down?
Nah, Lil's talkin' to her now.
I know this is hard
to talk about, Faith.
It was 12 years
ago.
I'm okay.
Uh, your dad's
under investigation
for a young girl's death.
Okay.
And that doesn't surprise you?
Not really.
I know there's not
too many reasons
a girl would walk out
on her dad and..
...never look back.
No.
When did it start?
When I was 13.
I thought it was normal.
Oh, how could you
know different?
'But you learn.'
Day after graduation,
I was gone.
[sighs]
Heard from my friends
he was calling them
20 times a day
frantic to find me.
- Did he?
- No.
And then, one day,
he just..
...stops calling.
Never heard from him again.
Y-you remember when that was?
Never forgot.
[sighs]
June '94.
That's the same month
that Kate Lange was killed.
(Danner)
You know what your detective
did to me this morning?
It's going around.
Well, I wanna know how
he's gonna be disciplined.
Danner, he watched a man
die last night.
Heat broke.
Yeah, Andre was right.
Got, uh, Wayne Nelson's
phone records.
There was one outgoing call
made the night of Kate's
death.
To the Lange house.
Nelson's here now.
Go do the interview.
All I'm seeing here
is business as usual.
I said I want that detective
punished.
Yeah, I heard you.
But this is our house
and I said he's doing
the interview.
Don't make me drop-kick you
out of here.
So you said something
about, um, a
follow-up?
Mmm. New developments.
Like?
Like, uh, you talking
on the phone
with Kate Lange
the night she was murdered.
- What?
- That's what I said.
You're saying you didn't hear
Andre's pager, Wayne?
The one he left behind.
'You didn't make a call?'
No. No, no, no.
You're right.
Uh, but she was looking
for Andre.
Good answer.
'Cause we checked
with the phone company.
Yeah, in fact, uh..
[chuckles]
...it was funny because,
um..
...at first, she
thought
I was Andre.
- Mm-hmm.
- Recall how that went?
Yeah, I called her back
and she was off and running
saying she wanted to finish
our talk.
Of course, uh,
I stopped her and..
...set her straight
that it was me.
Sure you didn't take advantage
of the mix-up?
(Rush)
'Oh, for a guy like you..'
...had to be an opportunity
of a lifetime.
- A guy like me?
- We know about Faith.
What you were doing to her
all those years.
I don't like what
you're implying.
I don't like it either, Wayne.
In fact, it makes me sick.
I know what you are.
A degenerate like you
gets a chance
to prey on a teenage girl
and it's only weeks
after Faith walked out forever.
Don't talk about Faith.
I'll talk about her
all I want.
By the way..
...she hates your guts.
(Jeffries)
'So, now, along comes,
uh, another young girl.'
One who reminds you of Faith.
You hear her voice on
the other line, late at night.
Don't tell me you're not
going
over to get your jollies.
(Jeffries)
'You were missing
your daughter.'
Maybe you only meant to go
talk with this girl.
She wasn't half as
sweet
as my Faith.
'Cause she wasn't beaten down
by you.
Probably told you to keep
your dirty hands off her.
Oh, you got a sharp mouth.
She talked back to me
and fought me.
Not like my good Faith at all.
You shouldn't be calling
ex-cons.
You're lucky
you got me and, uh..
...not Andre.
[gasps]
That was you on the phone?
You don't call men
in the middle of the night.
'Cause you don't know
where a wrong mind can go.
You understand, Faith?
What did you call me?
[whispers]
Come here.
- My dad's coming down..
- Shh.
...any minute now.
No!
That's enough, Faith.
No, I'm not Faith.
Get out of my
house.
Shh!
Don't fight me.
I'm not Faith.
- I'm not Faith.
- Don't you talk back to me.
You don't want me
to hurt you.
You're always my nice girl.
[whimpering]
No, please.